Virtual Disk Image: 
Contains the full operating system, programs, and data of the VM. It’s a complete representation of the VM’s storage.

Virutal Machine:
A Virtual Machine (VM) is like a computer inside your computer. It works by creating a virtual version of a physical computer that can run its own operating system and applications, independent of the actual hardware of the physical machine.

Your personal computer would be called the host machine, and the virtual machine you are creating would be called the guest machine.

We use a "virtualization software" aka hypervisor in order to create a VM. It essentially tricks the VM into thinking it has it's own CPU, RAM etc. when in reality, we are allocating it from our host machine.

Uses of a VM:
If we create a software on a windows device, and we want to see how it runs on Linux and MacOS, we can create 2 virtual machines with those operating systems installed instead of actually having to go and buy two separate devices.

You can run different operating systems from 1 device.

Each VM is isolated, so if 1 VM goes wrong, then the others remain intact.

Differences between CentOS and Debian:
They are both Linux distributions, but they have different backgrounds and different package management systems.

CentOS is based on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and it focuses on stability. It is often used in enterprise environments because of this
Debian is open-source and community driven. It is also stable, but more often used on servers and desktops.

CentOS has the Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) and YUM or dnf to install and manage software.
Debian has Advanced Package Tool (APT) and dpkg for the same as above

CentOS has a longer release cycle, meaning it focuses on long-term stability and only provides updates when necessary.
Debian has a more frequent release cycle, and they offer 3 versions:
a. The stable version (for stability)
b. The testing version (for newer features, but it is still stable)
c. Unstable (for cutting-edge software and experiments)

AppArmor:
It is a security framework in Debian that allows you to control the abilities of your applications, like setting permissions on what it can do and what all it can access.

Essentially, it allows you to enforce rules on your apps, so that it reads only relevant files, accesses only required system resources and so on.

Differences between APT and APTitude:
Both are tools to manage software.

APT is preinstalled on Debian systems, APTitude has to be installed by the admin.

APT is a command line tool, APTitude has a text-based graphical interface.

APTitude is smarter when it comes to dependency management, and can offer suggestions, whereas APT is a more straightforward and less interactive tool.

Verifying GUI's:
ls /usr/bin/*session

This command means:
ls = To list everything

/usr/bin = Go to the directory usr/bin. This directory contains many of our systems executable programs, including those related to GUI's

/*session = This means to check for anything that ends with session, which are basically "session managers" for different GUI's.

What we are doing while running this command is checking whether any session managers exist. If they do, then it implies that there is a GUI being used.

dbus is a communication system that allows different programs and services on Linux to communicate with each other.
dbus-run-session is a command that starts a new D-Bus session. 
dbus-run-session is not a graphical session manager, like gnome-session or xfce4-session. It’s more of a utility used to manage application sessions

To view the system details, we use:
uname -v

uname: This prints the system info, like the OS, kernel and the hardware

-v: Prints the version

The command getent means: get entries

When we run the command getent group sudo, we might see and output like:
sudo:x:27:user1,user2

sudo: group name
x: group password. x means it doesn't exist, since group passwords are rarely used
27: Group ID
user1, user2: This is obvious.

To check the hostname:
hostname
NOTE: The hostname is the unique name of the computer on the network.

To change the hostname:
sudo vi /etc/hostname
(And change the hostname there. This is a system file that contains the current hostname of your machine.)
sudo vi /etc/hosts
(Change the hostname there too. This file maps hostnames to IP addresses, and you update it to reflect the new hostname so that the system can resolve it correctly.)
Without updating /etc/hosts, your system might still reference the old hostname when trying to resolve local connections (for services, scripts, etc.), which can lead to networking issues, especially on the local machine.
sudo reboot
(Reboot the machine)

To view partitions:
lsblk (List block devices)
It displays information about all the block storage devices on your system, such as hard drives, SSDs, USB drives, and their partitions.

NAME: Device or partition name.
MAJ: Kernel identifiers (major
numbers).
RM: Indicates if the device is removable.
SIZE: Size of the device or partition.
RO: Read-only status.
TYPE: Device type (disk or partition).
MOUNTPOINT: Where the partition is mounted in the file system.

swap space is just some extra memory that we allocate while partitioning in the hard drive, that holds certain files and programs if in case the RAM gets too full. 
This allows you to keep working without having to focus on stopping your other programs.

Logical Volume Managers:
In simple terms, Logical Volume Manager (LVM) is a tool in Linux that makes it easier to manage disk space by allowing you to combine, resize, and move storage across different hard drives dynamically.

One of the main advantages of LVM is that you can resize logical volumes easily. If you run out of space in a logical volume, you can add more space to it from the volume group without rebooting or losing data.
You can also shrink or move volumes to a different physical drive.

Why Is LVM Useful?
Flexibility: You can add more drives to your system and extend your volume group, making more space available to your logical volumes without having to re-partition or format the drives.
Resizing: If one part of your system (like the home directory) needs more space, you can easily grow its logical volume.
Snapshots: LVM allows you to take snapshots, which are like temporary backups of the state of a logical volume, useful for backups and testing.

Sudo:
Sudo stands for superuser do
It is a command in Linux that allows you to run other commands with admin privileges.

When you run a command with sudo, you’re telling the system, “I need to do something important that requires higher permissions”, like installing software, modifying system files, or changing important settings.

It ensures that only authorized users can make changes to critical system settings, helping to avoid accidental or harmful changes.

UFW:
UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall) is a tool that helps protect your computer by controlling what data can come in or go out of your system over a network.

It lets you create rules to allow or block certain types of network traffic. For example, you can allow only web traffic (like HTTP and HTTPS) but block everything else.

Ports:
A port is like a gateway on your computer that allows it to communicate with other computers over a network, such as the internet. 
Each port is associated with a specific type of service or application, like web browsing, email, or file sharing.

Different services use specific port numbers to communicate:
Port 80: Used for HTTP (web browsing).
Port 443: Used for HTTPS (secure web browsing).
Port 22: Used for SSH (secure remote login to another machine).
Port 25: Used for email (SMTP).

Port 8080 is often used as an alternative to port 80, which is the default port for HTTP (web traffic).

It’s commonly used for web servers and web-based applications when port 80 is already in use

There is an authority called Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) that decides the purpose of a port/s.

SSH:
SSH (Secure Shell) is a tool that lets you safely connect to another computer over a network, like the internet, and control it remotely. It’s like a secure remote control for computers.

It’s commonly used by system administrators and developers to manage servers or other remote computers securely.

Advantages of SSH include:
All data sent through SSH is encrypted, so even if someone is spying on the connection, they can’t read your data.

Most SSH connections are done through the command line, meaning you type in commands to control the remote computer.

CRON:
Cron is a tool in Unix-based systems (like Linux) that allows you to schedule and automate tasks to run at specific times or intervals. 